---
layout: post
title:  "How to get Luxury for Cheap"
date:   2020-10-18 00:35:00 -0400
categories: jekyll update
---

Gucci belt -- 40, Prada clutch -- 200, Burberry Trench -- 700. Wrong?
Well...kinda. These are real item prices, but there's a catch for how they
became so cheap. Normally, even the cheapest item at a luxury shop, usually a
cardholder, will run you $300. For many of us, buying luxury can make
ourselves feel more confident, and give a baller impression to our friends.
But is taking out a month's salary really worth it...there must be cheaper
luxury options right?

Besides picking up items from the dump or getting hand-me-downs, there are
actually several pretty legitimate and legal ways to get luxury for cheap.

## Right Country

For starters, if possible, you should be shopping in a country where luxury
isn't overpriced. For most luxury brands, this usually means USA or where the
fashion house originated, for example England for Burberry. A notably
overpriced luxury shopping place is China, which despite its high consumption
of luxury, is also the most expensive. High demand and tariffs are probably
the 2 largest contributions to this price hike. To give perspective on how
bad this price increase can be, $270 wallets can go for $400, and $700
hoodies can go for $1100.

## End of Season Sales

For some brands, like Burberry and Balenciaga, at the end of a season, there
are massively discounted items up for grabs. This type of sale is usually
very complete, and starts at 50% off. If you're willing to wait for the hype
to go down, this is a great time to grab a piece you've been craving from
your favorite fashion house. Classic items usually don't show up here, but
who's complaining?

## Stores goes Bankrupt

If a department store is about to close, they don't really have any choice
but to dump all of their products. It's the best they can do to squeeze some
final profits out of their business. For consumers, this can be a paradise,
since you can get some insane deals on items. For example, there are often
compounding discounts, like 30% on 20% on 50%, which if you do the math,
comes out to a 72% total discount. **Warning** though, it's usually not a
good idea to order these items online, since the store inventory can get very
hectic, and you may not receive your order or get a wrong item. Your best bet
is to rush in Black Friday style and grab whatever you can.

## Employee Discount

Employees at all levels get some sort of discount on products at the store. I
suspect for salespeople, part of this is so they can wear a Prada item to
work, for example, so it can help sell their products more. It's not super
transparent on what the discount limitations are, but there are certainly
item limits per season, and different levels probably have different
restrictions. For a top fashion brand house in the world, which I will keep
anonymous, a software engineer can get 6 items per season, which is usually
2-4 cycles a year. The discount starts around 50%, but there are also items
that go out of fashion or have defects, and they can be discounted up to 95%.
Sometimes, these defect items don't even count towards the employee discount
quota.

As a side note, as appealing as it might sound to become a Gucci associate
and use your employee discount, reselling luxury is _extremely_ hard. For
example, if you want to luxury consign to a legit place like TheRealReal, you
have to pay tons of commission, and if you try to sell on the streets, it's
super hard to convince someone your product is legit.

## Bottom Line

If you buy something luxury, you should definitely first consider it as a
fashion piece you are ok wearing. Reselling is not likely to work, value
depreciates fast, and things just go out of fashion. What ultimately brings
value to clothing is the owner and bearer of the piece.